docs/pages/enroll-resources/auto-discovery/kubernetes-applications/get-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Get Started with Kubernetes Application Discovery
description: Detailed guide for configuring Kubernetes Application Discovery.
---

Teleport can automatically detect applications running in your Kubernetes
clusters and register them with your Teleport cluster. In this setup, users with
Kubernetes-hosted infrastructure can configure secure access to any new
applications they deploy with no need for manual intervention beyond the initial
setup step.

In this guide, we show you how to enable Kubernetes application auto-discovery.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A Kubernetes cluster version >=
  v(=kubernetes.major_version=).(=kubernetes.minor_version=).0

- Helm >= (=helm.version=)

  (!docs/pages/includes/helm.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Create a join token

Create a join token for a new Teleport agent that will run the Teleport
Kubernetes Service, Application Service, and Discovery Service:

```code
$ tctl tokens add --type=kube,app,discovery
```

Enabling the `discovery` role by default will automatically start the discovery
of Kubernetes services and registration of Teleport applications from them. And
enabling `app` role on the chart will start the process of proxying all new
Teleport applications created from discovered Kubernetes services.

## Step 2/2. Deploy the agent

If you want to install a new Teleport agent in your Kubernetes cluster, you can
use the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart. If you already have a Teleport agent
installed, you can upgrade it to enable the Kubernetes Application Discovery
by adding the `kube`, `app`, and `discovery` to roles as shown below.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Install a new agent">

Deploy a new Teleport agent running your configured services by installing the
`teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart:

```code
$ helm install teleport-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
  --set roles=kube\,app\,discovery \
  --set kubeClusterName=main-cluster \
  --set proxyAddr=<Var name="proxy-address" /> \
  --set authToken=<Var name="token" /> \
  --create-namespace \
  --namespace=teleport
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Upgrade an existing agent">

If you want to have an existing `teleport-kube-agent` installation and want to enable
Kubernetes App Discovery, you need to update the existing installation role to
include `kube`, `app`, and `discovery` roles:

```code
$ helm upgrade teleport-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
  --reuse-values \
  --set roles=kube\,app\,discovery \
  --set authToken=<Var name="token" /> \
  --namespace=teleport
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

First, make sure that all expected agents for the Teleport Discovery,
Application, and Kubernetes Services are running. The token you created for them
must have the required roles.

If agents are running, but you don't see expected apps appearing in Teleport,
there could be two main reasons:
- The Teleport Discovery Service can't find relevant Kubernetes services.
- The Teleport Application Service can't proxy discovered applications.

Make sure that Kubernetes service account under which the Discovery Service is
running has enough permissions to list the cluster's services. Also make sure
that labels and namespaces configuration is correct.

For the Application Service, make sure that labels in `resources` field are defined correctly, specifically that label
`teleport.dev/kubernetes-cluster` matches `discovery_group` field of the Discovery Service running in the Kubernetes cluster.

## Next steps

You can configure the scope of the Discovery Service. For more information, see
[`teleport-kube-agent` helm chart
documentation](../../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-kube-agent.mdx).

Commit message:

Fix Vale warnings in three guides
- Getting started guide for auto-discovering Kubernetes applications.
- DynamoDB (as an application) guide. This change does not address one
  Vale warning with `tsh aws dymamodb`, which is a false positive.
- Getting started guide for protecting applications.

docs/pages/enroll-resources/auto-discovery/kubernetes-applications/get-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Get Started with Kubernetes Application Discovery
description: Detailed guide for configuring Kubernetes Application Discovery.
---

Teleport can automatically detect applications running in your Kubernetes
clusters and register them with your Teleport cluster. In this setup, users with
Kubernetes-hosted infrastructure can configure secure access to any new
applications they deploy with no need for manual intervention beyond the initial
setup step.

In this guide, we show you how to enable Kubernetes application auto-discovery.

## How it works

The Teleport Discovery Service queries the API server of the Kubernetes cluster
in which you want to detect applications, maintaining dynamic `app` resources to
match the Kubernetes services that it detects within the cluster. The Teleport
Application Service queries the Teleport Auth Service to fetch `app` resources,
and proxies applications based the dynamically generated configuration.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- A Kubernetes cluster version >=
  v(=kubernetes.major_version=).(=kubernetes.minor_version=).0

- Helm >= (=helm.version=)

  (!docs/pages/includes/helm.mdx!)

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Create a join token

Create a join token for a new Teleport Agent that will run the Teleport
Kubernetes Service, Application Service, and Discovery Service:

```code
$ tctl tokens add --type=kube,app,discovery
```

Enabling the `discovery` role by default will automatically start the discovery
of Kubernetes services and registration of Teleport applications from them. And
enabling `app` role on the chart will start the process of proxying all new
Teleport applications created from discovered Kubernetes services.

## Step 2/2. Deploy the agent

If you want to install a new Teleport Agent in your Kubernetes cluster, you can
use the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart. If you already have a Teleport Agent
installed, you can upgrade it to enable the Kubernetes Application Discovery
by adding the `kube`, `app`, and `discovery` to roles as shown below.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Install a new agent">

Deploy a new Teleport Agent running your configured services by installing the
`teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart:

```code
$ helm install teleport-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
  --set roles=kube\,app\,discovery \
  --set kubeClusterName=main-cluster \
  --set proxyAddr=<Var name="proxy-address" /> \
  --set authToken=<Var name="token" /> \
  --create-namespace \
  --namespace=teleport
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Upgrade an existing agent">

If you want to have an existing `teleport-kube-agent` installation and want to enable
Kubernetes App Discovery, you need to update the existing installation role to
include `kube`, `app`, and `discovery` roles:

```code
$ helm upgrade teleport-agent teleport/teleport-kube-agent \
  --reuse-values \
  --set roles=kube\,app\,discovery \
  --set authToken=<Var name="token" /> \
  --namespace=teleport
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

First, make sure that all expected agents for the Teleport Discovery,
Application, and Kubernetes Services are running. The token you created for them
must have the required roles.

If agents are running, but you don't see expected apps appearing in Teleport,
there could be two main reasons:
- The Teleport Discovery Service can't find relevant Kubernetes services.
- The Teleport Application Service can't proxy discovered applications.

Make sure that Kubernetes service account under which the Discovery Service is
running has enough permissions to list the cluster's services. Also make sure
that labels and namespaces configuration is correct.

For the Application Service, make sure that labels in `resources` field are defined correctly, specifically that label
`teleport.dev/kubernetes-cluster` matches `discovery_group` field of the Discovery Service running in the Kubernetes cluster.

## Next steps

You can configure the scope of the Discovery Service. For more information, see
[`teleport-kube-agent` helm chart
documentation](../../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-kube-agent.mdx).
